---
layout:     post   				    # 使用的布局（不需要改ti）
title:      Methods of Primitive			# 标题 
subtitle:   My First Post #副标题
date:       2024-07-25 				# 时间
author:     BY 陈凯旋		 				# 作者
header-img: img/post-bg-2015.jpg 	#这篇文章标题背景图片
catalog: true 						# 是否归档
tags:								#标签
    - Javascript
    - data types
    - 数据类型
---




## Hey

>这是我的第一篇博客。

### preface

In the first blog I want to talk about methods of primitives.We know objects have methods and in javascript we have the power to treat them as they were objects.

### the distinctions between primitive and object 

#### primitive

is a value of the basic type  `string`, `number`, `bigint`, `boolean`, `symbol`, `null` and `undefined`.

#### object

1. object is capable to store mutiple values as their "properties" 
2. functions are objects

there is a **superiority** of object that is : we can insert or store a function into a property 

```javascript
let object = {
  name: "jack",
  sayhi: function () {
    alert(this.name);
  },
};
```

#### So Objects are “heavier” than primitives. They require additional resources to support the internal machinery.

### How to accomplish that : treat primitives like objects

#### first why we want to treat primitives like objects

There are many things one would want to do with a primitive, for example we want to change a lowercase string into a uppercase string simply. It would be simple and quick to access them using methods.

#### BUT

we want to keep primitives lightweight

So here we come up with :Only When we want to operate primitives with methods they are objects And When we don't need that they change back to primitive (So that they can provide methods, but they still remain lightweight)

In order to do that :**a special “object wrapper” that provides the extra functionality is created when we need it, and then is destroyed when we finish using it.**

#### Dive in

```
let str = "Hello";

alert( str.toUpperCase() ); // HELLO
```

1. The string `str` is a primitive. So in the moment of accessing its property, a special object is created that knows the value of the string, and has useful methods, like `toUpperCase()`.
2. That method runs and returns a new string (shown by `alert`).
3. The special object is destroyed, leaving the primitive `str` alone.

#### Some details

1. **null/undefined have no methods** 
   In a sense, they are “the most primitive”.

2. using the constructor functions `String/Number/Boolean` without `new` is totally fine and useful thing. What they do is They convert a value to the corresponding type: to a string, a number, or a boolean (primitive).

   For example, this is entirely valid:

   ```javascript
   let num = Number("123"); // convert a string to number
   ```

3. Still !! **primitives are not objects.** which means they can't store additional data

```
let str = "Hello";

str.test = 5; 

alert(str.test);
```

the result will be 

1. `undefined` (no strict mode)
2. An error (strict mode).

The reason is that "wrapper object" :
when you use "." after "str" (in other words when you wanna access the "str") the  “wrapper object” is created.  

1. in "no strict mode"  it carries the "test" property but remember it will disappear  When you see the ";" after"5;" it disappears. You won't have the trace of the  “wrapper object” so in"alert(str.test);" you can't find _the “wrapper object” you interact before _ .It vanishes with no trace. So you could only get "undefined"
2. in "strict mode" : there is a red flag or a Rule that cannot be crossed : you can't write into  “wrapper object” So An error
